# ENGS 128 Lab 1 - Direct Digital Synthesis (DDS) and the Audio Codec

## Postlab Report and Assignment Submission

### Canvas Submission

For the Canvas assignment submission, you will upload:
* Your GitHub repository link
* A PDF of your post-lab report

You may collaborate with a partner on pieces of the system design and implementation strategies, but each student will submit their own Github link and post-lab report.

---

### Evaluation
Your work will be evaluated against a rubric with the following breakdown:
* 30% of your grade for the quality of your paper design (architecture, parameter, and timing analysis).
* 30% of your grade for the quality of your testbench simulation (code and annotated results).
* 15% of your grade for the quality of your code.
* 10% of your grade for the quality of your implementation results and design demonstration.
* 15% of your grade for the quality of your post-lab documentation and analysis (your explanatory work).

See Canvas for the detailed rubric.

---

## GitHub Link

Before submitting a link to your repository, please double-check the following: 
* That all of your source files (design sources and simulation sources) are included.
* That your code follows the required coding conventions, is properly organized, and has been sufficiently annotated/commented.
* And that you have pushed your work back to your remote repository.

Push your work back to your remote repository with the following commands:

```
git add .
git commit -a -m "YOUR COMMIT MESSAGE"
git push
```

---

## Post Lab Report

The majority of the post-lab report will consist of consolidating, organizing, and explaining the design documentation deliverables in each task outlined in `README_Assignment.md`--all paper designs, RTL schematics, block diagrams, and annotated waveform diagrams should all be included as figures in the report. 

>[!Important]
>Every image/figure in the report should have a short (1-2 sentences) description of what the reader should deduce from looking at it.
>
>All block diagrams and simulation waveforms should be sufficiently annotated to make it easy to see the intended design and behavior.
>
>**YOU WILL NOT RECEIVE CREDIT FOR UNCOMMENTED FIGURES.**

---

### Report Outline
Your lab report should include:
1. A brief **introduction** (1 paragraph) that:
	* Explains how the design works at a high level
	* Provides an overview of the documentation included in the report
2. Answers to the **pre-lab** questions in `README_Prelab.md`.
3. Separate sections for each of the **design tasks** in `README_Assignment.md` that provide detailed descriptions and documentation (the list of design documents to submit for each task is consolidated in the section below). 
	* Start each section with a short description of how this design component works.
 	* Add the paper designs (schematics, FSMs, block diagrams, design calculations)
  	* Add the annotated RTL schematics generated by Vivado Elaboration. *How well did the generated RTL schematic compare to your paper design? Please explain any discrepancies.*
   	* At a high level, explain what simulations you ran and why. *How did they help you evaluate the efficacy of your design? Include well-annotated simulation waveforms to support your argument.*
	  
4. A brief **post-lab discussion** (1-2 pages) that addresses the following questions:
   	* Describe your methodology. *What steps did you take, and how did you leverage the incremental build and test process?*
   	* *What challenges did you encounter? How did you address these challenges?*
   	* *How well did the system as a whole work? Did you observe any unexpected behavior or timing discrepancies upon implementing your design in hardware? How did you resolve them?*
   	* Reflect on your testbench designs for each block and top-level entity. *Did the simulation results reveal any unexpected issues? How would you improve your design/test/debug process in the future?*
   	* *How, if at all, did this lab shape your perspective on the FPGA design process? In what ways did this change your thoughts on hierarchical design?*
---

### Design Documentation Summary

A summary of the design deliverables from `README_Assignment.md` is consolidated below:

#### Task 1: I2S Transmitter
* Paper design for your I2S timing block (include calculated specifications)
* Paper design for your I2S transmitter (RTL schematic, FSM)
* Screenshots of the Vivado elaborated designs (`i2s_transmitter.vhd` and `i2s_clock_gen.vhd` schematics)
* Annotated simulation screenshots that clearly show the correct timing of your I2S signals. Include a close-up of the serial timing when driving the test pattern into the I2S transmitter. Make sure your left and right serial data streams look the same.

#### Task 2: DDS Controller
* Paper design (calculated specifications, RTL schematic, FSM if applicable)
* Screenshot of your Vivado elaborated design (`dds_controller.vhd` schematic)
* Annotated simulation screenshots that clearly show the functionality of your DDS controller.

#### Task 3: DDS -> I2S Transmitter
* Paper design for your DDS -> I2S transmitter top design (RTL schematic)
* Screenshot of your Vivado elaborated design (`top_level.vhd` schematic)
* Screenshot of your Vivado block design.
* Annotated simulation screenshots that clearly show the correct timing of your I2S signals
	* Include a close-up of the I2S transmitter signals. Show that the left and right serial data streams are correct, given the input DDS signal.
 	* Include a high-level screenshot that shows the left and right audio frequencies changing. 

#### Task 4: I2S Receiver
* Paper design for your I2S receiver/DDS -> I2S transmitter top design (RTL schematic)
* Screenshot of your Vivado elaborated design (`top_level.vhd` schematic)
* Annotated simulation screenshots that clearly show the correct timing of your I2S signals
	* Include a close-up of the I2S transmitter and receiver signals when testing the I2S passthrough. Show that the input and output data streams are the same.
* Print out of your Vivado synthesis and implementation `Messages` panel (deselect `Info`, and select `Warnings`, `Critical Warnings`, and `Errors`). If any warnings remain, explain why they are benign.


